= Ruby ETL Gem
This ETL (Extract Transform Load) Ruby gem provides a back-end system for 
moving data between data sources in a reliable and scalable manner. It 
includes features for extracting from several different data sources, 
transforming the data, and loading to different databases with a user-specified 
load strategy. 

The ETL system is designed from the ground up to be highly available and 
scalable through usage of queued ETL jobs, distributed workers, and optimized 
load paths.
 
== Key Use Cases
* Loading data in batches into a data warehouse (e.g. Redshift) for downstream analytic workloads
* Creating aggregated/roll-up tables from raw data

Because the ETL system is configured through Ruby and JSON, the target users
are back-end developers who are looking to integrate a lightweight solution
into their system.

== Key Features
Currently implemented features:
* Connects to various data sources including relational, non-relational, and flat file
* Flexible load strategies including insert, partition, and upsert
* Job configuration and specification through Ruby for flexibility
* Jobs are parameterized by JSON payloads that can be sent as queue messages for distributed processing
* Automated management of common warehouse columns such as load date
* Worker process that reads jobs from queue and runs them

Future features:
* Parameterizable Ruby process for scheduling jobs
* Posts metrics on job scheduling and execution performance
* Additional data sources/destinations
* Job scheduling and dependency representation
* Support for streaming data sources
* Code hooks for validation and auditing of data loads

== Data Sources and Destinations
Currently the following sources are supported for both data input and
output.
* CSV
* MySQL
* PostgreSQL
* InfluxDB

The following are on the short list for future support:
* Redshift
* CloudWatch

== Status
Although there are many working parts of this system and it is being used in 
production at my current company, the interface is still evolving and not
all features have been fully implemented. This should be considered pre-Alpha
software. Please contact me if you're interested in contributing or have
questions.

To be completed before I'd consider this "alpha":
* Finish scheduling and metrics features listed above
* Provide documentation and examples of the API
* Publish to RubyGems

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Charles Smith

This is an Open Source project licensed under the terms of the MIT license as 
described in the LICENSE file in the root directory of this repository.
